I've just seen the interview to playback
of the interview which is uh recorded on
youtube by of ice show azmi bbc2 i think
it was news night where she was
questioned there on the news night show
whether or not she was aware that uh
when she took the interview when she
went for the job at the school whether
she was aware not that this was a church
of england Schoolnet at church of
england school might not have been
advisable for her to wear the veil it
was fascinating to watch the interview
progress and something that shows me and
I see it an awful lot when I'm working
with Muslims at speakers corner what
they tell you publicly is not
necessarily what they'll tell you
privately and this was brought really
brought clear in this interview you
start seeing her very robust response
every time the interviewer asked her a
question concerning her job concerning
why she wore the veil she had these
practiced responses that were very
certainly quite passionate and it was
they were the same exact response ER
that we've heard her repeat over and
over again in other news channels but
then when he started asking her about
how is it that she even got interviewed
for the job and whether while she at the
interview there was a male at the
interview she said yes his name was mr.
Smith my name and when the interviewer
asked well was he on or were you when
you were in being interviewed did you
wear the veil suddenly there was a
change of attitude she looked down you
couldn't see her face it was covered so
we couldn't see her expression on her
face but you could just imagine the
expression on her face and then she said
could you repeat the requested or I
can't understand what you're saying or
at one point she even says do I have to
answer that question and it was obvious
that she was very uncomfortable we
didn't have to see her face at that time
it was obvious from just her non verbals
of her body and the way she tilted her
head that she was very uncomfortable
with the question and when the
interviewer prestaron it that uh she was
actually being interviewed for the job
with her face uncovered it was not a
problem at that time suddenly it's now a
problem now that she's in the class
situations you can't have any male
colleague in see her face that that was
a contradiction in terms and also that
this was disingenuous of her to do this
she finally had to admit and I thought
it was a fascinating example of what we
know as the public versus the private
face of Islam this is the public face
that many Muslims will show you when
they're in a discussion with you when
they're arguing with you but when you
finally take them over and you get close
to them you get over a cup of tea at at
a neutral environment when that
relationship does form you start to see
the private face we saw it in just a
five-minute segment of interview there
on news night just a few nights ago and
it's it concerns an awful lot of us as
to why this has to happen and I think
it's something that we need to be aware
of I've asked many my Muslim friends how
why they do this and why they don't give
us that first face that private face
from the very beginning so we know who
we're dealing with and so we don't have
these embarrassments like Aisha Esme had
there in front of national television
from the whole world and they get
response that I've got from some my
Muslim friends as this well when Muslims
live in this country or one they live
outside of a Muslim context when they
live in a Western context they are in
what they call al Haram which means
House of war they come out of battle
Islam house of Islam into the house of
war and the word itself the word that is
given the word that is used describes
exactly what they're the context that
they live in they live in the context of
war and when you're in the context of
war you can say anything you want it's
not important that you tell the truth
necessarily and certainly it's not
important you tell people what you
actually believe because you're in a
context of war when you're in a war you
don't tell the enemy what your
intentions are when you're and more you
can lie to them you can deceive them its
first legitimate to do so and if you
believe yourself in to be in that
context it stands to reason then it's
quite understandable then why I sure as
me said what she said but we need to be
very careful of that not to believe
everything that Muslim say point blank
it's not that I hate Muslims for doing
this i can understand their viewpoint it
disturbs me however that many people are
being duped by it and it son it's tragic
it's unfortunate the way I show was
caught out there
on national television I hope this
doesn't happen to happen again and I
hope really that Muslims realize that as
Westerners and those of us who live here
when we ask someone really what their
intentions are and they seem passionate
about it we assume that that is their
real intention we assume that they
really believe what they say we assume
that they are consistent in their
beliefs and it helps nobody them or us
if they're duping us or deceiving us or
are saying things that they don't
believe or just trying to win the
argument or trying to press home an
advantage it doesn't help anybody
certainly in this kind of debate there
is no answer for that other than the
fact that if we would beast be honest
and open them very beginning and not be
ashamed of the fact that maybe we don't
live consistently with with our beliefs
maybe we could start from that premise
things that go a lot better I hope
that's been helpful let's see earlier
responses to this certainly it's been
one of those eye-opening type of
situations that just happened the last
week this is jayden over now